Task 23B macOS whiteboard input controller RED evidence
Date: 2026-08-03 (Asia/Shanghai)

Scope:
  InputRouter's opt-in mouse drawing behavior and a pure C++ macOS whiteboard
  input controller were specified with tests before their implementation. The
  controller stub returned Ignored for every operation and held no active
  stroke state.

Commands:
  cmake --build --preset macos-arm64-release --target \
    canvas_input_router_test canvas_macos_whiteboard_input_test -j 4
  ctest --preset macos-arm64-release \
    -R 'InputRouterTest|MacosWhiteboardInputTest' --output-on-failure

Observed result:
  Compilation succeeded. CTest exited 8 with 11 failures among 20 focused
  tests. The failures covered mouse-draw opt-in, Base preview begin/move/up,
  topmost Embedded annotation attachment, cancel rollback, mode and document
  replacement invalidation, mismatched phase lifetime, collision-free ids,
  single-point commit, and failure cleanup. Nine existing/negative-control
  assertions passed, including the default-disabled mouse route and rejection
  behavior naturally produced by the inert stub.

Status: RED confirmed.

Independent-review follow-up RED:
  Five of 17 controller tests failed before the ownership fix. A same-type
  external mutation was silently overwritten by Up, an external append was
  accepted as controller-owned state, and erase-plus-recreate with the same id
  was deleted by stale cleanup. Zero pointer ids/out-of-range pressure and a
  null document replacement were also incorrectly accepted. These failures
  established the review fixes before their implementation.

Second independent-review follow-up RED:
  Four new controller tests failed before binding preview ownership to the
  Document instance. Copy-assigning a clone back into the same Document kept
  node id/cache identity/revisions but changed Document::instanceId; Move and
  Up mutated that replacement, while Cancel erased it. Separately, setBounds
  moved an identity-owned preview far from the recorded dirty area, but Cancel
  still reported a normal partial invalidation. The four failures established
  the instance and rollback-validity fixes before implementation.
